# Geometry Course
*progress tracker*

- [x] Class 1: An Introduction, Staying Organized, and Course Content
- [x] Class 2: Fundamental Geometry (Part I)
- [x] Class 3: Fundamental Geometry (Part II)
- [x] Class 4: Fundamental Geometry (Part III)
- [x] Class 5: Inductive and Deductive Reasoning
- [x] Class 6: Proofs and Properties of Equality and Congruence (Part I)
- [x] Class 7: Proofs and Properties of Equality and Congruence (Part II)
- [x] Class 8: Proofs and Properties of Equality and Congruence (Part III)
- [x] Class 11: Angles Formed by Transversals
- [X] Class 12: Triangles (The Pythagorean Theorem and the Triangle Sum Theorem).
- [x] Class 13: Triangle Congruence Postulates and Theorems.
- [x] Class 14: Applications of Triangle Congruence and More Triangle Theorems
- [x] Class 15: The Distance Formula and the Midpoint in Two Dimensions
- [] Class 16: Coordinate Proofs and Bisector Theorems
- [] Class 17: Review for Test 2
- [] Class 18: Test 2
- [] Class 19: Points of Concurrency Generated by Triangles
- [] Class 20: Review on Linear Equations, Linear Graphs, and Systems of Equations.
- [] Class 21: Finding the Coordinates of Points of Concurrency Generated by Triangles
- [] Class 22: Ratios, Proportions, and Triangle Inequality Theorems
- [] Class 23: Similar Polygons and Similarity Postulates and Theorems
- [] Class 24: Proportionality Theorems, Transformations, and More on Similar Polygons
- [] Class 25: Review for Test 3
- [] Class 26: Test 3
- [] Class 27: Right Triangles (Part I)
- [] Class 28: Right Triangles (Part II)
- [] Class 29: Special Quadrilaterals (Part I) and Angles of Polygons
- [] Class 30: Special Quadrilaterals (Part II)
- [] Class 31: Special Quadrilaterals (Part III)
- [] Class 32: Review for Test 4
- [] Class 33: Test 4
- [] Class 34: Circles (Part I).
- [] Class 35: Circles (Part II)
- [] Class 36: Circles (Part III)
- [] Class 37: Review for Test 5
- [] Class 38: Test 5
- [] Class 39: Area (Part I)
- [] Class 40: Area (Part II)
- [] Class 41: Area (Part III)
- [] Class 42: Volume
- [] Class 43: Paragraph Proofs and Flowchart Proofs
- [] Class 44: Review for Test 6
- [] Class 45: Test 6
- [] Class 46: Review for Part I of the Final Test
- [] Class 47: The Final Test (Part I)
- [] Class 48: Review for Part II of the Final Test
- [] Class 49: The Final Test (Part II)
- [] Class 50: Calculating Your Final Grade

---

**Topics covered**:
`inductive reasoning`
`flowchart proofs`
`congruence`
`angles`
`triangle sum theorem`
`deductive reasoning`
`paragraph proofs`
`pythagorean theorem`
`distance formula`
`midpoint`
`points of concurrency`
`similarity`
`circles`
`proportionality`
`transformations`
`right triangles`
`quadrilaterals`
`area`
`volume`
`angles`
`and more`

This course was created by [The College Prep School](https://www.youtube.com/@thecollegeprepschool4486). The entirety of this course is contained in the following YouTube playlist, including all of your homework and tests.

**Course Playlist:** <https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLm2VEQtiYjhoXTFAF8nuN5YrAl2Muh4Nw>

## Instructions

- Work through the playlist from top to bottom.
- In each video, the teacher works through a problem set, then a homework.
- When the teacher says "try this one on your own", pause the video and work it out. You do not have to do every single problem, but make sure to pay attention, learn the method to solve it, and do the ones he tells you to complete.
- Always complete the homework. If you get something wrong according to the answer key, try to see what you did wrong and redo the problem correctly.
- When you get to a review day, attempt every problem yourself then complete the homework.
- Take the tests seriously and don't cheat. Use them as a measure to see where your knowlege is at. Do not move on without feeling proficient at a topic.
- You may find a calculator useful for this course. [Desmos](https://www.desmos.com/calculator) is a good free graphing calculator.
